as Mike Hannah joins us live now from
Washington DC Mike so there seems to be
a distinct change of tone and a
hardening of the language in how
President Biden is dealing with the
Israeli leader what can we read into
this
Mike well very much so uh for the first
time since Israel began its war on Gaza
the United States is now beginning it
appears to put its foot down uh the
language used it is said in the
conversation between President Biden and
the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu included the words specific
concrete and measurable steps for Israel
to take if it does not take So within
hours or days as the White House puts it
then the US will be reconsidering its
policy towards Israel now what this is
exactly means that's not clear the White
House will not be drawn on what policy
changes are being contemplated uh but
the National Security spokesman in the
uh White House John Kirby made very
clear that this switch in attitude is
directly connected to the killing of the
seven food Aid workers earlier this week
uh he says very specifically uh that
this is indeed the case now there's a
personal element here President Biden is
acquainted with the owner of the world
Central Kitchen Jose Andres and
certainly this appears to have disturb
the president intensely uh including the
fact as well that among those seven food
Aid workers killed is an American
citizen so now you've got the US pushing
into a totally different position in
terms of persuading Israel to increase
its protection of civilians but more
than that President Biden in his phone
call called for an immediate ceasefire
uh to allow for the delivery of
humanitarian Aid to those in Gaza so
this is a significant shift in the US
position whether it transforms into
policy changes whether it makes
assistance to Israel conditional well
that's something that the White House
will not comment on at this stage all
right Mike Hannah live for us there in
Washington Mike thank
you well attacks by Israeli forces are
continuing in the southern city of Rafa
despite the area earlier being declared
a safe Zone the latest strike killed at
least seven Palestinians including three
children funerals have been held for the
victims west of the city Rafa has become
home to more than half of gaza's
population after many were forced there
from the north more than 33,000
Palestinians have now been killed by
Israel since the War Began including
14,000
children enough put an end to this
Injustice for 180 days children have
been bombed and there were daily
killings enough where are the rights of
children where are the rights of women
where is
UNICEF these are the goals of Israel it
does not have any plans to end this war
its targets are children and women there
is no safe place at
all what safety there is no safety at
all in Gaza there is not one meter or
inch of land that is safe they displaced
them to Rafa thinking it was safe but
even tents houses everywhere is being
bombed there is no safety Al jazer hanim
Mahmud has mourn now from Rafa in
southern
Gaza been very consistent with what we
have experienced so far since the
beginning of this genocidal where there
isn't fact no safe Zone across the Gaza
including the safe zones that largely
designated by the Israeli military where
everyone was uh ordered sharply to
evacuate to to avoid being bombed but
ended up being killed and bombed inside
the areas that were uh designated safe
Zone including Al safe area in the
western part of the balah andun and city
of RA but almost if we what we see in
the pattern of Israeli response after
every resolution or action or demand by
the United Nations and its uh different
agencies including the international
court of justice is a more more resurge
of the air strikes and Air Raids carried
out relentlessly across the Gaza so
it'll be interesting to see what is the
Israel response uh to the demand by
President Biden within as Ellen pointed
out within the coming 2448 or maybe 72
uh coming hours but so far in overnight
attacks the Israeli military carried out
Relentless air strikes targeting more
residential homes causing further
civilian casualties seven people from
one family and we're seeing the same
exact pattern of attacks on largely
civilian population civilian defenseless
population side residential home with
these unpredictable Fallen bombs seven
people reported killed and many other
injuries and and causing further
internal displacement for people at the
surroundings uh area